README.md, before:

# Rides API

In this example, an access controlled API is set up with AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM).

AWS SAM is a set of AWS CloudFormation macros to declare serverless resources. Unfortunately the macros do not extend to security infrastructure, so most of the declared resources are vanilla CloudFormation.

Below is a brief explanation of what is in this repo:

```
.
├── README.md                   <-- This file
├── ride_sharing                <-- Source code for a lambda function
│   ├── test                    <-- contains unit tests for the lambda functions
│   │   └── list.js
│   ├── create.js               <-- Lambda function code to create a new ride
│   ├── list.js                 <-- Lambda function code to list rides
|   ├── read.js                 <-- Lambda function code to retrieve ride details
|   ├── update.js               <-- Lambda function code to update ride details
|   ├── delete.js               <-- Lambda function code to delete a ride
│   ├── options.js              <-- Lambda function to answer pre-flight requests
│   ├── package.json            <-- NodeJS dependencies
│   └── package-lock.json       <-- pinned dependencies
├── .gitignore
├── Makefile                    <-- contains targets to package and deploy
└── template.yaml               <-- SAM template
```

## Requirements

* [SAM CLI installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* AWS CLI configured with Administrator permission
* [NodeJS 8.10+ installed](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [Docker installed](https://www.docker.com/community-edition)
* make

## Limitations

* *Authorizer:* `template.yaml` creates a Cognito User Pool called `riders`. It also creates an authorizer in the API that refers to the pool. Moreover, clients are created that can request tokens. One is called `test-client`, the other `ride-sharing`. The former is intended for test automation, the latter for a browser-based OAuth application. In order to start using the Cogito User Pool, the following remains to be done:
  * define a resource server that will consume access tokens with custom scopes:
    * the resource server represents the access controlled API. The resource server is assumed by the authorizer to be identified as `rides`, so make sure that this is the identifier you configure for the new resource server. This identifier string is what some other authorization server vendors refer to as the audience, often represented in JWT tokens in the `aud` claim;
    * scopes express permissions to perform actions on the API. The template configures various methods to  require the following scopes: `create`, `update` and `delete`. These scopes have to be added to the resource server. Note that the scope configuration on the API side concatenates the resource server identifier (`rides`) and the scope proper, e.g. `rides/update`, to form the scope string to be tested by the authorizer;
  * configure the test client to be allowed to request access tokens via the OAuth Client Credentials Grant. Make sure that the test client can request all access token scopes available - this should be `rides/create`, `rides/update` and `rides/delete`;
  * configure the `ride-sharing` app client to request access tokens via the OAuth Authorization Flow Grant. Make sure that the client can request all access token scopes available - this should be `rides/create`, `rides/update` and `rides/delete`;
  * set the sign in and sign out URLs for your clients.
* *CORS:* the commented-out `template.yaml` code returns all the correct CORS headers when the respective methods are queried with HTTPie. For reasons I do not understand since I mimic request parameters, these headers are not returned when XHR requests are launched in an SPA. At least, they are not when running the SPA in Chrome, the only browser I tested. For now, therefore, resources need to be CORS-enabled manually in the console.

## Setup process

### Packaging and deployment

Use the `deploy` `make` target:
```
$ make deploy
```

### Manual tweaks

See the [Limitations](#limitations) section.

Commit message:

need-to-know information disclosure by options function for pre-flight

README.md, after:

# Rides API

In this example, an access controlled API is set up with AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM).

AWS SAM is a set of AWS CloudFormation macros to declare serverless resources. Unfortunately the macros do not extend to security infrastructure, so most of the declared resources are vanilla CloudFormation.

Here is an overview of the content of this repo:

```
.
├── README.md                   <-- This file
├── ride_sharing                <-- Source code for a lambda function
│   ├── test                    <-- contains unit tests for the lambda functions
│   │   └── list.js
│   ├── create.js               <-- Lambda function code to create a new ride
│   ├── list.js                 <-- Lambda function code to list rides
|   ├── read.js                 <-- Lambda function code to retrieve ride details
|   ├── update.js               <-- Lambda function code to update ride details
|   ├── delete.js               <-- Lambda function code to delete a ride
│   ├── options.js              <-- Lambda function to answer pre-flight requests
│   ├── package.json            <-- NodeJS dependencies
│   └── package-lock.json       <-- pinned dependencies
├── .gitignore
├── Makefile                    <-- contains targets to package and deploy
└── template.yaml               <-- SAM template
```

## Pre-requisites

* [SAM CLI installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* AWS CLI configured with Administrator permission
* [NodeJS 8.10+ installed](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [Docker installed](https://www.docker.com/community-edition)
* make

## Functions and their rationale

### options

The options lambda is named after the HTTP method that triggers it, `OPTIONS`. It is designed to respond to pre-flight CORS requests. So its main task is to inform the browser what it should do to protect the backend. A secondary goal is to leak as little information as possible about the constraints enforced by the backend. So the strategy is governed by a need-to-know policy. None of the CORS response headers are set if any of the requested features (origin, headers of method) are disallowed and requested features are reflected otherwise. This means that no information about acceptable features leaks until a call is attempted, forcing an attacker to work harder and make detection easier. `Access-Control-Expose-Headers` is never sent as the client has no need to know.

The API does not accept any cookies so `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` is never sent back.

`Access-Control-Max-Age` of 600s affords performance optimization at negligible increased risk since the stack would need reconfiguration for CORS settings to change which requires human intervention.

## Limitations

* *Authorizer:* `template.yaml` creates a Cognito User Pool called `riders`. It also creates an authorizer in the API that refers to the pool. Moreover, clients are created that can request tokens. One is called `test-client`, the other `ride-sharing`. The former is intended for test automation, the latter for a browser-based OAuth application. In order to start using the Cogito User Pool, the following remains to be done:
  * define a resource server that will consume access tokens with custom scopes:
    * the resource server represents the access controlled API. The resource server is assumed by the authorizer to be identified as `rides`, so make sure that this is the identifier you configure for the new resource server. This identifier string is what some other authorization server vendors refer to as the audience, often represented in JWT tokens in the `aud` claim;
    * scopes express permissions to perform actions on the API. The template configures various methods to  require the following scopes: `create`, `update` and `delete`. These scopes have to be added to the resource server. Note that the scope configuration on the API side concatenates the resource server identifier (`rides`) and the scope proper, e.g. `rides/update`, to form the scope string to be tested by the authorizer;
  * configure the test client to be allowed to request access tokens via the OAuth Client Credentials Grant. Make sure that the test client can request all access token scopes available - this should be `rides/create`, `rides/update` and `rides/delete`;
  * configure the `ride-sharing` app client to request access tokens via the OAuth Authorization Flow Grant. Make sure that the client can request all access token scopes available - this should be `rides/create`, `rides/update` and `rides/delete`;
  * set the sign in and sign out URLs for your clients.
* *CORS:* the commented-out `template.yaml` code returns all the correct CORS headers when the respective methods are queried with HTTPie. For reasons I do not understand since I mimic request parameters, these headers are not returned when XHR requests are launched in an SPA. At least, they are not when running the SPA in Chrome, the only browser I tested. For now, therefore, resources need to be CORS-enabled manually in the console.

## Setup process

### Packaging and deployment

Use the `deploy` `make` target:
```
$ make deploy
```

### Manual tweaks

See the [Limitations](#limitations) section.
